# Overview

This will likely be one of the more complicated set of documents in this project. Identity is at the heart of virtually everything well...virtual. Whether a document is owned by you, me, or the system can have bearing on who else can view it, modify it, or - if it is a program - who can run it. Additionally, access to services, software, and systems is managed by trusting the identity of who is requesting access. The more confident we are in the identity, the better we can feel that the  activities of the identity not impersonated and can be properly attributed to them. For instance, believing 'abraxas@abraxas.io' logged in to a website because they provided a username, password, and MFA code is higher confidence than if they had only provided a username and password.

This section will deal with designing systems and applications as well as managing permissions across objects in ways which attempt to ensure identity can be trusted as much as possible while also providing tools and configurations to investigate and validate identity issues.

Included in this section will be implementation and deployment best practices for RADIUS/TACACS, Active Directory, local system accounts, and others as well as guides on how to integrate MFA platforms like 'Duo', 'Google Authenticator', Authentication Tokens, and other mechanisms to build confidence in identity. There will also be resources for monitoring access, identifying suspicious activity & ideas for response capabilities, and tools to review & maintain access so that only the required people have access to only the features they need for any particular service, system, role, or software.
